Hello friends in this video let us have an introduction
to divide and conquer algorithms
So what do you think what kind of problem can
be solved using the divide and conquer algorithms See if
a particular problem can be divided into multiple subproblems
of the same type
We can solve that problem using the divide and conquer
strategy
The divide and conquer strategy follows this procedure to solve
the problem
So the first step is divide that is recursively
break the problem into multiple subproblems of the
same type
Then the second step is conquer
That is solving the sub problems
So now we will have the results of these
subproblems and then the final step is combine
That is we will arrive at the main solution by
combining the results of all these subproblems
So let us take a problem and understand the divide
and conquer procedure
First, it will divide the problem into multiple subproblems
of the same type
So this problem is divided into four subproblems
Problem 123 and four
Secondly, it will conquer  subproblem which means
it will find the solution for the subproblems
So we have the solution of subproblem one 2,3
and four
And finally, it will combine all the subproblem solutions
and produce a solution to the main problem
So this is how divide and conquer algorithms solve the
problem
But there is a limitation to this approach
The main problem and all the subproblems should be
the same problem
For example, if the main problem is sorting all the
subproblems should be sorting
If the main problem is searching all the subproblems
should be searching
It cannot be different problems
For example, suppose we have this main problem which is
sorting and sub problem
One is searching
Sub problem too is sorting
Problem tree is inserting and subproblem for is
deleting
This kind of problem cannot be solved using the divide
and conquer approach
So that's all about the divide and conquer approach
And in the coming videos, we will solve some problems